[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>It felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: And
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
She is a shaman.
She is a high priestess.
But she wasn't always that.
There's a reason.
Deborah King, our special
guest on "Beyond Belief."
Deborah, always a pleasure.
How are you?
>> DEBORAH KING: Great, George.
Great to be here.
>>NOORY: So you
weren't born a shaman.
You weren't born
a high priestess.
How did you develop into that?
What happened?
>>KING: Well, it
was back in my 20s.
I was a fast-charging
young lawyer, just
a year out of law school.
And the next thing I knew,
George, I woke up with cancer.
>>NOORY: Oh my God.
>>KING: Yeah, I know.
It was a big shock.
I thought I was
perfectly healthy.
And I got off my life
for just a moment.
I stepped off of the treadmill.
And I looked back at myself,
and I was like, oh my God.
No wonder I'm sick.
I was doing a lot
of things wrong.
I was dealing with
some addictions
I didn't want to think about.
I had an addiction to alcohol,
I was addicted to Valium.
And the first thing I
did was work on that.
>>NOORY: At that age?
That was a young age, my God.
>>KING: Yeah.
I was just 25.
And I went to a 12 step program.
I worked with my doctors.
I asked for a little bit of
time to consider alternatives.
They gave me some time.
I learned how to meditate.
That was a big step.
And then the next
thing I did, I started
looking at alternative medicine.
And I was really surprised.
After just a few treatments
from an energy practitioner,
I had an amazing
remission from cancer.
>>NOORY: Did you do conventional
treatment at all too?
>>KING: I didn't.
>>NOORY: That's pretty gusty.
>>KING: I wasn't against it.
Well, but I was given a window.
My doctors gave me a window.
And I recommend to
people that they
work with their whole team--
with their oncologists,
their physician,
their acupuncturist.
Get everybody on board.
>>NOORY: So that
window was, look,
you don't need to
do conventional now.
You don't need to do
chemo or radiation yet.
>>KING: Right.
I was slow-moving.
I had six months.
>>NOORY: And so in
those six months,
you changed your life around.
>>KING: I did.
And you can imagine my reaction.
I mean, in remission,
I wanted to know
what made the cancer come,
what made the cancer leave,
how to reproduce this
for other people.
And even more important,
what started the whole thing,
how to avoid it in
the first place?
>>NOORY: So during this
process, you beat this cancer.
You then became a shaman.
You got involved in
spiritual things.
You began to investigate
possessions, near death
experiences.
How did that happen?
How did that evolution occur?
>>KING: Well, it's
one step at a time.
You don't eat the elephant
all at once, just one bite.
And I was actually working
with priests for a while.
I was very attracted to
light-filled experiences.
And hanging around
priests a lot,
I started to see a
lot of the dark, too.
So I realized it's
all one thing.
And we have to deal with both.
>>NOORY: How about the priests?
Did they see that too?
Did they see the darkness?
>>KING: Oh, they do, they do.
And no matter what
culture you go to, George,
it's all the same--
east, west, north, south.
Every culture has a
shaman or a priest,
someone who's trained in this.
>>NOORY: Is the dark
side responsible for some
of the ills that we face--
the cancer, for example?
>>KING: Absolutely.
Yeah, there's no doubt about it.
There is darkness.
We're kidding ourselves
if we pretend there isn't.
Culturally, we all know that.
That's why we have
movies about the dark.
That's where we're attracted
to books and films that
address it, because it's there.
>>NOORY: And Deborah, what was
that first major step for you,
then, where you started
getting involved in this?
We're going to go
through some of the work
that you do to fight off
some of these evil spirits.
How did you start doing that?
Did you meet specific people
who pulled you along the way?
>>KING: I did.
I did, and I was
working with a shaman.
At one point, out of the
blue I developed a really bad
back injury.
And I was flat on my
back for two weeks.
And I couldn't figure it out.
I visited an acupuncturist
and an osteopath.
I mean, I was trying everything.
And they all said,
well, we don't
see anything physically
wrong with you.
So this was at a period
where I was really
trying to bring the
light to others.
And I guess the dark was
ready to challenge me.
>>NOORY: Oh yeah, they were
right there, weren't they?
>>KING: They were.
And I was asleep one night.
And I woke up in the
middle of the night,
and I just knew up there
in the corner of the room,
there was a dark force.
And it taunted me.
It shook the bed, and it
hollered at me all night.
It was just terrifying.
And this went on
for several nights.
>>NOORY: Oh my God.
How did you sleep?
>>KING: Well, I didn't,
and I was exhausted.
They wear you down,
and wear you down.
And so finally, I got smart.
I called a friend,
and I asked them
to go to the nearest
church and pick up
a crucifix and some holy water.
And that next
night, I was ready.
>>NOORY: You pulled these out?
>>KING: I did.
And I just aimed.
And you can use
whatever icon works
for you, whatever your
belief system might be.
And it pulled it back.
It's never been
that severe since.
>>NOORY: I mean, when
you held the cross up,
did you have to say,
in the name of God?
>>KING: I did, I did.
Yeah, in the name of the--
>>NOORY: Almost like
an exorcist would do.
>>KING: Exactly.
And see, I'd had already
had some experience by then
with priests, and I'd
seen some of this.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Now did this demon, whatever
it was, did it scream?
Did it holler?
Or did it just like--
>>KING: It dissipated.
>>NOORY: It floated away?
>>KING: It floated away.
>>NOORY: Never to come back?
>>KING: Well, I've had a lot
of experience with clients
and students, of course,
who have their darkness.
And so I can sense
it when it comes.
And the modality I
choose to eradicate it
is different in each case.
I have to feel into the person
and also into their belief
system.
So for one person, I might
be using a Hindu deity.
And for someone else, I might
be using a Buddhist deity.
It's whatever works for them.
>>NOORY: Deborah,
you are constantly
in the midst of these,
what I would call,
demons or evil spirits--
bombarded by them.
How do you fight that off
so you don't get sick,
like Edgar Casey did?
>>KING: Well, you try
to stay in the light.
I try to do the same things
that I urge my followers to do--
to constantly be clearing
themselves, to be addressing
our own feelings of,
hey, it's our jealousy
and our inadequacies that pull
us down and make us vulnerable.
So it's a constant-- it's
like warfare a little bit.
>>NOORY: You have documented
a lot of these cases, too,
in your books, and the
things that you've worked.
Here's one of your latest,
"Entangled in the Darkness:
Seeking the Light."
It's so important that
people seek the light
and try to fight this.
When people come to you,
what do they ask for?
What is their issue?
>>KING: It varies
from person to person.
It's just fascinating.
And sometimes, what they
tell you isn't really
what the issue is.
In fact, about half the
time, I've noticed that.
>>NOORY: You've got to
find it out on your own?
>>KING: Well, you
have to discern it.
I've worked with tens
of thousands of people,
and so I can discern pretty
quickly what the real issue is.
Some people are ready to step
up to a new platform of light.
It's like a vibration, George,
you can sense it in your body.
So I just feel, am I
going down into some sort
of shamanic thing, or am I
going up toward the light?
And then I know what
the person's ready for.
>>NOORY: In some cases,
some people probably
are truly possessed.
There's evil around them.
In other cases, maybe
it's a medical issue,
or a mental issue, too.
When you're with them and
all of a sudden you realize,
well, this person may need
some psychiatric help.
I don't think it's a possession.
How do you kind of
wiggle out of that?
>>KING: Delicately,
very delicately.
I'll tell you a story.
I was working with a large
group here not long ago.
And all of a sudden, a women
in the back of the room
was waving her arm in the air
and was pretty aggressive.
I want to be next, and so
people brought her up on stage.
And she started to
tell the audience
all about the spiritual
experiences she
was having--
visions and whatnot.
And I could really
sense schizophrenia.
I was like, oh, wow, whoa.
Not the possession that
she thought she had.
It was all-- it was very sad.
>>NOORY: Yeah, it is said,
because they believe it.
>>KING: Oh yeah.
And her husband was with her.
And he looked very
uncomfortable.
And I dealt very
delicately with it,
and tactfully, and
ushered her out.
And I asked to see her later.
And I took her in a
back room, and I really
urged her to think
about medication.
And she told me she had just
left a mental institution that
was next door.
>>NOORY: Oh, wow.
>>KING: And it just-- yeah.
And so I--
>>NOORY: You pinpointed
that one perfectly.
I guess you have to
be careful like that.
But the true
possessions now, have
you come across
cases that have just
scared the living
daylights out of you?
>>KING: Oh, absolutely.
Several times, I've
wished I could run.
One time, I actually did run.
I just knew I was too
tired to cope with it.
I had a really interesting
case about a year ago,
where a woman called
from a foreign country
and demanded to be seen, and
flew in on a private jet.
It was all very impressive.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>KING: Yeah I kind
of got sucked into it.
And so that took me
out of alignment.
I can't work properly
if I'm in my ego.
And oh, this was
all very impressive.
I violated a couple
of my own rules.
>>NOORY: You knew.
>>KING: Yeah.
I saw it coming.
I worked at night, which
is not good for me.
And the moment that
this gal arrived,
I could sense this huge
demonic possession.
It was very frightening.
I got sick after that one,
because I wasn't in alignment.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
I got kind of nauseous once.
I was interviewing an individual
on the Coast-to-Coast radio
show, and I started
getting messages
from listeners who were
saying, I don't feel good.
This person, there's
something wrong.
Something's happening.
And he was supposed to be
the representative of what
was called the Maitreya,
that a lot of people
thought was the Antichrist.
And the more he-- he seemed
like a nice person, older guy--
but the more he
talked, the more you
felt like you were being
pulled in into something
that just wasn't quite right.
And the audience sensed it.
Deborah, I've never been sick
on the air, ever in my life.
I didn't how long I
could do that show.
I was getting
nauseous and sweaty.
And so I ended the interview,
went to a commercial, came back
and he was gone.
I felt fine.
It just went away.
>>KING: Yeah, and
see, your own body's
a wonderful-- it's like a kit.
It just gives us all
of these symptoms.
It tells us.
We all instinctively know
when we're around dark stuff.
>>NOORY: And I don't like it.
I don't like it.
What is it?
You've looked at possessions.
What is this that does it to us?
I mean, what are these entities?
Who are they?
>>KING: You know, there is
kind of mild forms, lots
of times there are thought
forms that someone's died,
and just a thought
form has remained.
Sometimes it's the
whole individual
that hasn't passed
on to the next realm.
They're still here.
We call those ghosts.
Sometimes it's a fallen angel.
That's someone who
never lived, but it's
a spirit that decided
to go from the light
to the dark, kind of the
Lucifer sort of story.
So there are a large variety
of types of dark energy
that are floating
around out there.
And when we get open to it, when
we have holes in our own energy
field-- which we're
sitting inside of--
>>NOORY: The find it.
>>KING: Yeah.
They scoop right in.
>>NOORY: Well, it's
like a disease.
It's like cancer, where if
your immune system is down
for whatever reason, it hits.
And I would guess these
demons are the same thing.
>>KING: Absolutely.
And you know what-- you know
how the medical system tells us,
well, we all have cancer cells
in our body all the time.
It's the same thing.
There's darkness
around us all the time.
But there are so many
different ways to combat it.
So I don't want to scare people.
>>NOORY: Can an individual
do it on their own?
>>KING: To a
degree, to a degree.
There are a lot of small
steps you can take.
But if you feel that you're
seriously being chased
or harassed by dark
forces, I would really
urge people to get some help.
>>NOORY: You go through various
rituals, too, to fight off
and ward off evil spirits.
You've brought some
things here for us today.
Let's go through some of them.
>>KING: Oh, yeah, one
of the best things
that people can do at home
is take a sea salt bath.
It's a really easy thing to do.
You take a pound of sea
salt, a couple of these--
>>NOORY: All right.
Just good old sea salt?
>>KING: Yeah.
Baking soda, hop in.
Not too hot, you don't
want to cook yourself.
You don't want to
deplete yourself.
So this is a great
way to clear yourself
of lower-level dark energies.
>>NOORY: Why does that work?
>>KING: It works the same
way that the ocean works.
You know if you swim, you know
that great feeling you have
when you get out of the ocean?
>>NOORY: It's invigorating.
>>KING: Oh, you feel
so fresh and clean.
Well, this is the same.
Works the same as
sunlight, so it actually
changes energy,
transmutes energy.
>>NOORY: So you just
dump in how much?
>>KING: That's the
perfect amount.
>>NOORY: The whole thing?
>>KING: Yep, the whole thing.
I would use two of these.
>>NOORY: All right.
All together?
>>KING: Yeah.
And then just go to bed.
You wake up feeling fresh
and clean the next morning.
If you don't, you
might be dealing
with something a
little bit darker.
>>NOORY: OK.
All right.
And beyond this then,
what else do we have here?
>>KING: Well, if you're
worried about dark forces
in your space, one of the
best things you can use
actually is a little of this.
So this would be a great thing.
So this is--
>>NOORY: I don't know if
you can see that or not.
>>KING: This is Epsom salts.
>>NOORY: OK.
I've heard a lot about that.
>>KING: Yeah.
So here's how Epsom salts works.
You burn it.
You add a little bit alcohol,
the highest proof you can get,
and then you light it.
We won't do that today.
>>NOORY: But it flares up.
>>KING: It creates a gas in
the room, and it clears-- now,
this is an old chef's trick.
Every chef in a big
restaurant knows this trick
to clear his kitchen.
It just clears all
the energy out.
Now, be super careful.
I lit the curtains on
fire one time doing this.
>>NOORY: Yeah, I guess the flame
could be pretty high, right?
>>KING: Whoosh, away it goes.
So you would do a whole room.
You just carry this
around very carefully.
You get the oven mitts
out, and you have a helper.
And you just do the
whole room like this.
You can do people.
Just be very careful,
don't get too close.
It gets very hot.
You want to have something
that can't catch fire.
>>NOORY: Plain old Epsom salts.
You pick it up at a drugstore.
>>KING: That's right.
The highest profile
alcohol you can get.
>>NOORY: And if it
doesn't work, you
could always drink the vodka.
>>KING: That's right, step two.
>>NOORY: I love it.
All right, what else
do we have here?
>>KING: Well, then another
trick, of course, again
you could spray the whole
room with holy water.
>>NOORY: And you have to
go to a church to get that?
>>KING: Well, I
bless my own now.
And with a lot of intentionality
and some training,
you can learn to bless your own.
>>NOORY: All right.
And do you have to say anything?
Is there a ritual behind it?
>>KING: You don't just
use your own words.
You intend for this to be
a carrier of the light,
to work with the light.
Whatever works for you
and your belief system.
>>NOORY: OK.
And if for some reason the
spirits do not leave you,
what happens?
>>KING: Well, I would
get a shaman or a priest
to help me out at that point.
>>NOORY: Like you.
>>KING: Uh huh, yeah.
For sure.
>>NOORY: How long does
the rituals normally take?
>>KING: They don't
take very long.
And again, I think that's
an individual thing.
I notice mine are very fast,
less than a couple of minutes.
I think that's because the
spirit works through you
and your unique personality
and your idiosyncrasies.
And I'm very type A, and
I couldn't wait an hour.
So mine are very fast.
>>NOORY: Yeah, I'd
want it done ASAP too.
>>KING: That's right.
Right now.
>>NOORY: Why wait?
>>KING: That's right.
>>NOORY: What are they after?
Do they want our souls?
What are they trying to do?
>>KING: Oh, that is
such a great question.
So here's how it really works.
The light and the dark
are actually all the same.
But you have to be on a whole
nother plane to sense that.
And here on Earth,
we don't sense it.
We see duality.
We see light, dark, black,
white, winter, summer.
Everything seems like duality.
But on this plane where spirit
lives, it's all the same.
So the dark is actually trying
to merge with the light.
The problem is, in doing
so it gets confused,
and it tries to take me out
and you out along the way.
It's trying to
secure your light.
So that's what it really wants.
And sometimes you can work with
it, and make it happen easily.
Sometimes you have
to beat it to death.
>>NOORY: If you put
your guard down,
if-- let's say-- you get
intoxicated or you're on drugs,
do you open yourself up for
possession a little better?
>>KING: Oh, absolutely.
Addictions disempower us.
We're giving our personal
power over to a substance,
or a practice, or an activity.
It could be anything--
pornography, shopping,
it can be anything.
We literally give our
personal power to that.
And so that makes us
really open to dark forces.
>>NOORY: You've got to
change that, too, then.
It's important.
>>KING: Yeah.
Our own behavior, we're
actually in the driver's seat.
We just think we're subject.
But in fact, we're in the
driver's seat the whole time.
>>NOORY: Have you come across
a case where even you thought,
I need some help here?
This is bigger than
I can even handle.
>>KING: Oh, yeah.
The story I told you a
minute ago, where I got sick?
I went back and I saw a priest.
And I've had to seek
priests a number of times,
where I've gotten--
>>NOORY: For yourself.
>>KING: Yeah, of course.
Yeah, no, you can get banged up.
A lot of my teachers died young.
>>NOORY: Well, I
was going to say.
Aren't you afraid
something could happen?
>>KING: Oh, I am.
I'm careful.
>>NOORY: Do you ever
bring these home with you?
>>KING: Oh yes.
Yes.
And you have to clear yourself.
And if I don't feel
I've cleared myself,
I'll go see someone
and get some help.
>>NOORY: Because I would
guess the spirit world,
the evil spirit world,
doesn't like people like you.
Because they know you're
out to get rid of them.
>>KING: That's right.
They sense it as
being gotten rid of.
But in fact, what
I'm trying to do
is accomplish what
their deeper longing is,
which is to merge
with the light.
Everybody wants to go
to the higher vibration.
It feels good.
We love it.
We hear that great
symphony of sound,
and we're all happy there.
>>NOORY: Have you
seen a metamorphosis
with somebody who came in to
you full of possession, full
of evil, and then walked out the
door like a brand new person?
>>KING: Oh, many times.
I had a student just not that
long ago who, out of the blue,
started moaning and shrieking
and throwing her head around
like Rosemary's baby.
>>NOORY: That's when
I'd say, time to go.
>>KING: And she was
in the front row.
Of course, it was the last
day of a long workshop.
And I remember
pausing and thinking,
am I too tired to
deal with this?
And then I decided she
was so much in the light
that this must be something
that I should handle.
She had a partial possession.
It was fascinating.
It was an ancient dragon energy.
It was very dark.
But at one time, it
had been very light.
So our cultures, we move
through periods of-- and so
this light had become dark,
and it had to be eradicated.
And now she's one of the
biggest teachers I have.
She's amazing.
>>NOORY: Have you
ever been attacked
during one of these
sessions, physically?
>>KING: I have.
I have.
>>NOORY: How do you
get out of that?
>>KING: You run.
>>NOORY: Do you ever go
toe to toe with them?
>>KING: No, but I have run.
I have run a couple times.
>>NOORY: I mean, they
just, what do they do.?
They just, ahh, and
come at you like that?
>>KING: Yeah, come at you.
And you'll see the energy.
You'll see a lot of red and
know that you're at risk.
I was actually more
concerned, probably,
the day I was working
with the woman
from the mental institution
from next door that
had schizophrenia.
>>NOORY: She could
have attacked.
>>KING: That felt pretty risky.
>>NOORY: Are you there with the
any security, or any helpers
who can jump in to
help you at any time?
Or are you there by yourself?
>>KING: That's a great question.
People in my field usually
have a retinue of helpers,
and I don't.
I work solo.
I'm not sure how smart that is.
>>NOORY: You've got to be
careful of that, exactly.
I know various
events I go to, I've
always got one or
two people there,
because you just you never know.
99% percent of them
are well-intentioned.
>>KING: Yeah, and
then there's that 1%.
>>NOORY: But you've got
that one, that's right,
that you just can't
figure it out.
I was at an event a couple years
ago prior to the Mayan calendar
date, and this guy looked
like he had a sword in a cane.
And he was approaching
the panel, really upset,
claiming that none
of the panelists
understood what the
Mayans were all about.
And I'm the director of the
panel, and I'm saying, hey,
we'll get your
question in a second.
Calm down.
But he kept getting
closer and closer.
And he was holding this
thing with his hand on it.
And you thought it was like a
samurai sword all of a sudden.
And so we had a
couple people who
were in the audience
who were there.
I don't want to call them
security, but they kind of like
got there next to the
guy, close enough so
that if he tried to do
that, they'd get him.
So I guess you have
to be careful too.
>>KING: I do.
>>NOORY: What
recommendation would you
give to people about
fighting these evil spirits?
And that's what we'll call them.
>>KING: My first
recommendation would be,
see how clear you
can keep yourself.
How do we stay clear?
We eat the right foods.
We get enough sleep--
that's actually a big one.
People are so sleep-deprived.
>>NOORY: Sleep?
What's that?
>>KING: Being sleep-deprived
is not a good thing.
It really opens us
up to other forces.
I recommend some
sunshine, some fresh air.
It sounds simple, but
these are the things
that actually keep us safe.
The main thing we have to
do is be constantly dealing
with our own dark emotions--
our jealousy, our resentments.
We need to not disown
them, but instead own them.
Go ahead.
Write down.
Admit.
Wow, that sister-in-law
of mine drives me crazy,
or whatever it is.
And just be at peace with how
you really feel about things.
That's one of the safest
things you can do.
>>NOORY: Deborah, how
do people find you?
Website?
>>KING: My website,
deborahkingcenter.com.
And I've listed the
protective measures there
for your viewers.
>>NOORY: Great.
Thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>>KING: Yeah.
Thanks for having me.
>>NOORY: I hope I'm never
in need of her services,
where I'm possessed.
But gosh, if it ever happens,
at least I know she's out there.
I'm George Noory.
And you've been watching
"Beyond Belief."
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]